Freeciv
  Playing
  Controls
  Copying
  Bugs
  About
City improvements
  Aqueduct
  Bank  
  Barracks
  Cathedral
  City Walls
  Coastal Defence
  Colosseum
  Courthouse
  Factory 
  Granary 
  Harbour
  Hydro Plant
  Library   
  MarketPlace
  Mass Transit
  MFG. Plant
  Nuclear Plant 
  Palace  
  Power Plant
  Recycling Centre
  SDI Defense
  Temple
  University 
Military units
  Armor 
  Artillery
  Battleship
  Bomber
  Cannon 
  Caravan
  Carrier
  Catapult
  Cavalry
  Chariot 
  Cruiser 
  Diplomat
  Fighter 
  Frigate
  Ironclad
  Knights
  Legion 
  Mech. Inf 
  Militia 
  Musketeers
  Nuclear Bomb
  Phalanx 
  Riflemen
  Sail  
  Settlers
  Submarine 
  Transport 
  Trireme   
Technology research
  Advanced flight
  Alphabet
  Astronomy
  Atomic Theory
  Automobile
  Banking
  Bridge Building
  Bronze Working
  Ceremonial Burial
  Chemistry
  Chivalry
  Code of Laws
  Combustion
  Communism
  Computers
  Conscription
  Construction
  Currency
  Democracy
  Electricity
  Electronics
  Engineering
  Explosives
  Feudalism
  Flight
  Fusion Power
  Genetic Engineering
  Gunpowder
  Horseback Riding
  Industrialization
  Invention
  Iron Working
  Labour Union
  Literacy
  Magnetism
  MapMaking
  Masonry
  Mass Production
  Mathematics
  Medicine
  Metallurgy
  Monarchy
  Mysticism
  Navigation
  Nuclear Fission
  Nuclear Power
  Philosophy
  Physics
  Plastics
  Pottery
  Railroad
  Recycling
  Refining
  Religion
  Robotics
  Rocketry
  Space Flight
  Steam Engine
  Steel
  Superconductor
  The Corporation
  The Republic
  The Wheel
  Theory Of Gravity
  Trade
  University
  Writing
Wonders of the world
  Apollo Project
  Cure For Cancer
  Colossus
  Copernicus' Observatory
  Darwins Voyage 
  Great Library
  Great Wall
  Hanging Gardens
  Hoover Dam
  Isaac Newton's College  
  J.S.Bach's Cathedral
  Lighthouse
  Magellan's Expedition
  Manhattan Project
  Michelangelo's Chapel
  Oracle
  Pyramids
  SETI Program
  Shakespeare's Theatre
  United Nations
  Women's Suffrage
Newbie hints
  Encourage city growth
  Improve the economy
  Increase happiness
  Increase knowledge
  Increase productivity  
--
                        Welcome to Freeciv.

Freeciv is a turn-based strategy game, in which each player becomes
leader of a civilization, fighting to obtain the ultimate goal:
The extinction of all other civilizations.
--
PLAYING THE GAME:

There is kind of a basic strategy at the beginning of the game or
at least; most players follow the pattern below at the start of each
game.(depending upon server options etc)

 0. Where to build the first city.
 1. Mapping the countryside
 2. Defending the cities
 3. Units to build first
 4. Agriculture improvements
 5. Where to build
 6. Taking care of cities
 7. Explorer the world
 8. Keep in mind
 9. Make your own strategy for the game
 
 
 0. Where to build the first city.
    Start the game by wandering around BRIEFLY to find a good place to
    build the first city. Don't feel tempted to investigate the yellow-
    roofed villages yet, they could host barbarian tribes.
    Build the city close to resources and perhaps close to the sea.
    Keep in mind that your first build city will be your capitol!
 
 1. Mapping the countryside.
    The capitol city will start creating a militia, use it to rove
    the countryside and remember it is NOT a good idea to leave a
    city unprotected.(Let the city create another militia)
    
 2. Defending the cities.
    At this point defending your cities means; always leave a militia in
    the cities. Later on you should replace them with other defence units
    like: Phalanx, Musketeers, Riflemen etc. Keep in mind that military
    units in the city might create unhappiness.(depending upon the type of
    government) Also remember that defence units in the city got their
    defence rate boosted by a factor of two. As your civilization advances,
    the game will always start by building the best defence unit, whenever
    a new city is build.
    
 3. Units to build first.
    After building one or two Militias, start building Settlers.
    If you used the second Settler to build roads or started to
    irrigate the farmland close to the city, use the next one to
    build a new city. Keep in mind that a large population increases
    both the amount of productivity and the all-over research in the game.
    If you used the second Settler to build a new city, then use the new
    Settler for agriculture improvements around the cities farmland.


 4. Agriculture improvements
    Building roads, irrigation, mines etc. around the farmland,
    (eg. the land you can place workers upon in the city dialog)
    will generate a better output of food, trade, research (or tax) in
    the city. 

 5. Where to build
    It's all a matter of taste, some players do not place their capitol
    near the sea, because it will be easier to spot by opponents, other
    palyers place their capitol near the sea because it makes it possible
    to build sea going units.(They usually need a harbour defence later on)
    The best strategy is to build a little of both, but keep in mind that
    your opponents will have difficulties locating you with Triremes, (which
    you'll be allowed to relatively early in the game) if you do NOT build
    cities close to the sea. (eg. two tiles from the sea)

 6. Taking care of cities.
    In the cities you move your workers to and from the farmland. If you
    move all of your workers back to the city and right-click on the city-
    tile the game will automaticly optimize for best food production in the
    city. You should keep this balanced yourself. Always check if there is
    generated too much food in a city. If thats the case you could consider
    moving the workers around, or take one worker back to the city and make
    him a scientist, entertainer or taxman. If there is not enough food
    produced in the city the city-icon will be labeled with a TCB-flash.
    The golden rule of taking care of the cities is: There should be at least
    as many unhappy citizens as happy citizens in the city. (The city does not
    produce anything if the majority is unhappy -and soon they will revolt)

 7. Explorer the world.
    When you have fortified your cities with troops. Begin to build Triremes in
    the cities near the sea. Start to map the world in search of opponents.
    Keep in mind that if you are on an island, you should spend less effort on
    military and more on expansion. If you are located close to an opponent, it
    is truly a good idea to make a peace treaty and share technology. (use the
    diplomats, it WILL pay off later)
 
 8. Keep in mind
    8.1 What technology you need next time.
    8.2 What your rates is currently set to.(luxury, taxes, research) 
    8.3 A Treaty can be broken...Do not forget defence..
    8.4 Monarchy allows three military units in each city without generating
        unhappiness
    8.5 Some Wonders can be made obsolete by obtaining the right technology.
    
 9. Make your own strategy for the game.      
    You have just read the basic concepts of FreeCiv, and you'll will be able
    to play the game pretty well in the beginning of the game. Our only
    advice to you now is: PRACTICE! There is lots of aspects in the game and
    if you haven't played a simular game before, try consulting our WWW pages
    at http://www.daimi.aau.dk/~allan/freeciv.html and keep up the practice!
    - A desperate call for a World Leader (FreeCiv's World Cup turnament) will
    be announced in the future..
--
                              Controls
			      
Mouse:                                       Keyboard:
======                                       =========
                                             c: (C)enter on unit 
Left-click:                                  b: (B)uild City
(on city):Modal popup window                 D: (D)isband Unit
(on unit): Activate Unit                     f: (F)ortify
                                             F: Build (F)ortress
                                             g: Unit (G)oto
Center-click:                                h: Make (H)omecity
(on map):popup info-window                   i: Build (I)rrigation
(on city):Non-modal popup window             m: (M)ining
                                             p: (p)illage
                                             r: build (r)oad
Right-click:                                 s: (S)entry
(on map): Scroll left/right map              w: (W)ait
                                         space: Turn DONE!     
--
                   GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                      Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                          675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                             Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The \"Program\", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a \"work based on the Program\"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term \"modification\".)  Each licensee is addressed as \"you\".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange;
    or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and \"any
later version\", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM \"AS IS\" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                         ------------------
--
If you find any bugs, then please send a bug-report. You can find the email
addresses in the \"about\" box in the help browser. Please check out our FAQ's
on the WWW at http://www.daimi.aau.dk/¨allan/freeciv.html.
--
                          Freeciv v 1.0a

            allan ove kjeldbjerg - allan@daimi.aau.dk
            claus leth gregersen - leth@daimi.aau.dk
            peter joachim unold  - pjunold@daimi.aau.dk

--
City improvements are build in each of your cities to improve trade
revenue, science production, etc. You must pay upkeep for each building,
after finishing it. If your civilization can't afford the upkeep for a
building, then it'll be sold.
--
Aqueduct,
allows your city to grow larger than size 10. It also eliminates
the risk for epidemics etc.

Cost:120  Upkeep:2  Requires: CONSTRUCTION

Tech required for CONSTRUCTION: Masonry and Currency
--
Bank,
increases the generated luxuries and taxes by 50% in the city.   

Cost:120  Upkeep:3  Requires: BANKING

Tech required for BANKING: Trade and The Republic
--
Barracks,
allows new units to become veterans which means increases the
their attack- and defence strength by 50 %

Cost:40  Upkeep:2  Requires: NONE

No Tech required ! 
--
Cathedral,
makes it easier to maintain order in the city. It makes 4 unhappy
inhabitants content in the city.

Cost:160  Upkeep:3  Requires: RELIGION

Tech required for RELIGION: Philosophy and Writing
--
City walls,
makes it easier to defend the city. It increases the defence 
strength of units within the city defence by a factor 3. 

Cost:120  Upkeep:2  Requires: MASONRY

Tech required for MASONRY: NONE
--
Coastal Defence,
increases the defence strength of units within the city by a factor of 2 when
defending against bombardments from enemy ships.

Cost:120  Upkeep:1  Requires: CONSTRUCTION

Tech required for CONSTRUCTION: Masonry and Currency
--
Colosseum,
gives entertainment to the city. It makes 3 unhappy inhabitants
content in the city.

Cost:100  Upkeep:4  Requires: CONSTRUCTION

Tech required for CONSTRUCTION: Masonry and Currency
--
Courthouse,
reduces the corruption in the city by 50 % 

Cost:80  Upkeep:1  Requires: CODE OF LAW

Tech required for CODE OF LAW: Alphabet
--
Factory,
increases the amount of resources produced by 50% in the city.

Cost:200  Upkeep:4  Requires:INDUSTRIALIZATION

Tech required for INDUSTRIALIZATION: Railroad and Banking
--
Granary,
will limit the amount of stored food to be used to generate new
population in the city by 50% 

Cost:60  Upkeep:1  Requires: POTTERY

Tech required for POTTERY: NONE
--
Harbour,
gives one food resource extra on all water terrain-types.  

Cost:120  Upkeep:4  Requires:MAGNETISM

Tech required for MAGNETISM: Navigation and  Physics
--
Hydro plant,
reduces the amount of pollution generated in the city. It also
doubles the production generated by the factory or MFG. Plant.

Cost:240  Upkeep:4  Requires: ELECTRONICS

Tech required for ELECTRONICS: Engineering and Electricity
--
Library,
increases the knowledge production in the city by 50%

Cost:80  Upkeep:1  Requires: WRITING

Tech required for WRITING: Alphabet
--
Marketplace,
increases the generated luxuries and taxes by 50% in the city.  

Cost:80  Upkeep:1  Requires: CURRENCY

Tech required for CURRENCY: Bronze Working
--
Mass transit,
minimizes the pollution generated by the population. The population
simply has no effect on the pollution generated in the city.

Cost:160  Upkeep:4  Requires: MASS PRODUCTION

Tech required for MASS PRODUCTION: Automobile and Corporation
--
MFG plant,
increases the amount of resource production in the city by 100 %

Cost:320  Upkeep:6  Requires: ROBOTICS

Tech required for ROBOTICS: Plastics and Computers
--
Nuclear plant,
increases the production generated by the Factory or MFG. Plant
by 50 %. It lowers the day to day pollutions rate and it
generate a great risk of nuclear meltdown under anarchy.

Cost:160  Upkeep:2  Requires: NUCLEAR POWER

Tech required for NUCLEAR POWER: Fission and Electronics
--
Palace,
makes the city the capitol. This is the centre of your government.
It also reduces corruption in cities close to the capitol. 

Cost:200  Upkeep:0  Requires: MASONRY

No tech required for MASONRY !
--
Power plant,
increases the production generated by the factory or MFG. Plant by
50 %. It increases the amount of pollution generated by the city.

Cost:160  Upkeep:4  Requires: REFINING

Tech required for REFINING: Chemistry and Corporation
-- 
Building a recycling centre, reduces the amount of pollution generated by
the city by 65 %

Cost:200  Upkeep:2  Requires: RECYCLING

Tech required for RECYCLING: Mass Production and Democracy 
--
SDI defence,
protects the city from nuclear attacks. Nuclear attacks simply have no
effect on the city.

Cost:200  Upkeep:4  Requires: SUPERCONDUCTOR

Tech required for SUPERCONDUCTOR: Plastics and Mass Production
--
Temple, makes one unhappy inhabitant content. Together with Mysticism or
Oracle it can make at most 4 unhappy inhabitants content.

Cost:40  Upkeep:1  Requires: CEREMONIAL BURIAL

No tech required for CEREMONIAL BURIAL !
--
University,
increases the knowledge production of the city by 50%

Cost:160  Upkeep:3  Requires: UNIVERSITY

Tech required for UNIVERSITY: Mathematics and Philosophy
--
Units can be divided into three categories; Attack-, Defence- or
General recon-units, depending on the attack-,defence- points. The
description of each units includes a \"Tech required for .....\"
section -this can be used as a guide for what tech to choose next
in the game.
--
Armor

Requires: Automobil  Attack: 10  Defence:5  Move:3  Cost:80 

Tech required for Automobil: Combustion and Steel
--
Artillery

Requires: Robotic  Attack: 12 Defence:2  Move:2  Cost:60

Tech required for Robotic: Plastics and Computers
--
Battleship

Requires:Steel  Attack:14  Defence:8  Move:4  Cost:240 

Tech required for Steel: Metallurgy and Industrialization
--
Bomber

Requires: Advanced Flight  Attack:12  Defence:1  Move:8  Cost:120

Tech required for Advanced Flight: Flight and Electricity
--
Cannon

Requires:Metallurgy  Attack:8  Defence:1  Move:1  Cost:40

Tech required for Metallurgy: Gunpowder and Masonry
--
Caravan

Requires:Trade  Attack:0  Defence:0  Move:3  Cost:50

Tech required for Trade: Currency and Code of Law
--
Carrier

Requires:Advanced Flight  Attack:1  Defence:12  Move:5  Cost:160

Tech required for Advanced Flight:  Flight and Electricity
--
Catapult

Requires:Mathematics  Attack:6  Defence:1  Move:1  Cost:40

Tech required for Mathematics: Alphabet and Masonry
--
Cavalry

Requires:Horseback Riding  Attack:2  Defence:1  Move:2  Cost:20

Tech required for Horseback Riding: NONE
--
Chariot

Requires:The Wheel  Attack:4  Defence:1  Move:2  Cost:40

Tech required for The Wheel: NONE
--
Cruiser

Requires:Combustion  Attack:6  Defence:6  Move:6  Cost:80

Tech required for Combustion: Refining and Explosives
--
Diplomat

Requires:Writing  Attack:0  Defence:0  Move:2  Cost:40

Tech required for Writing: Alphabet
--
Fighter

Requires:Flight  Attack:4  Defence:2  Move:10  Cost:60

Tech required for Flight: Combustion and Physics
--
Frigate

Requires:Magnetism  Attack:2  Defence:2  Move:3  Cost:40

Tech required for Magnetism: Navigation and  Physics
--
Ironclad

Requires:Steam Engine  Attack:4  Defence:4  Move:4  Cost:60

Tech required for Steam Engine: Physics and Invention
--
Knights

Requires:Chivalry  Attack:4  Defence:2  Move:2  Cost:40

Tech required for Chivalry: Feudalism and Horseback Riding
--
Legion

Requires::Iron Working  Attack:3  Defence:1  Move:1  Cost:20

Tech required for Iron Working: Bronze Working
--
Mechanized Infantry

Requires:Labour Union  Attack:6  Defence:6  Move:3  Cost:50

Tech required for Labour Union: Mass Production and Communism
--
Militia

Requires:None  Attack:1  Defence:1  Move:1  Cost:10

No Tech required !
--
Musketeers

Requires:Gunpowder  Attack:2  Defence:3  Move:1  Cost:30

Tech required for Gunpowder: Invention and Iron Working
--
Nuclear Bomb

Requires:Rocketry & Nuclear Fission  Attack:99  Defence:0  Move:16  Cost:160

Tech required for Rocketry: Advanced Flight and Electronics
           Nuclear Fission: Mass Production and Atomic Theory
--
Phalanx

Requires:Bronze Working  Attack:1  Defence:2  Move:1  Cost:20

Tech required for Bronze Working: NONE
--
Riflemen

Requires:Conscription  Attack:3  Defence:5  Move:1  Cost:30

Tech required for Conscription: The Republic and Explosives
--
Sail

Requires:Navigation  Attack:1  Defence:1  Move:3  Cost:40

Tech required for Navigation: Mapmaking and Astronomy
--
Settlers

Requires:None  Attack:0  Defence:0  Move:1  Cost:40

No Tech required !
--
Submarine

Requires:Mass Production  Attack:8  Defence:2  Move:3  Cost:50

Tech required for Mass Production: Automobile and The Corporation
--
Transportation

Requires:Industrialization  Attack:0  Defence:3  Move:4  Cost:50

Tech required for Industrialization: Railroad and Banking
--
Trireme

Requires:MapMaking  Attack:1  Defence:0  Move:3  Cost:40

Tech required for MapMaking: Alphabet
--
Technology research is a necessity for improving your race'
ability to develop new military units and city improvements. 
--
Advanced flight

Tech required: FLIGHT and ELECTRICITY
--
Alphabet,
allows Courthouse (with Code of Laws)
       Trireme    (with Mapmaking)
       Diplomat   (with Writing)
       Catapult   (with Masonry & Mathematics)
Tech required: NONE
--
Astronomy,
allows Copernicus
       Observatory
       Sail       (with Mapmaking & Navigation)
       

Tech required: MYSTICISM and MATHEMATICS
--
Atomic Theory

Tech required: THEORY OF GRAVITY and PHYSICS
--
Automobile,
allows Armor
       Submarine   (with The Corporation & Mass Production)

Tech required: COMBUSTION and STEEL
--
Banking,
allows Bank
       Capitalization
       Women's Suffrage (with Railroad & Industrialization)
       Transportation   (with Railroad & Industrialization)

Tech required: TRADE and THE REPUBLIC
--
Bridge Building,
allows Railroads (with Steam Engine)

Tech required: IRON WORKING and CONSTRUCTION
--
Bronze Working,
allows Colossus
       Phalanx
       Legion   (with Iron Working)
       

Tech required: NONE
--
Ceremonial Burial,
allows Temple
       

Tech required: NONE
--
Chemistry,
allows Power Plant (with The corporation & Refining)

Tech required: UNIVERSITY and MEDICINE
--
Chivalry,
allows Knights
       

Tech required: FEUDALISM and HORSEBACK RIDING
--
Code of Laws,
allows Courthouse
       Caravan    (with Currency & Trade)

Tech required: ALPHABET
--
Combustion,
allows Cruiser
       Armor  (with Steel)
       Fighter (with Physics & Flight)

Tech required: REFINING and EXPLOSIVES
--
Communism,
allows United Nations
       Mechanized infantry  (with Mass Production & Labour Union)
       
Tech required: PHILOSOPHY and INDUSTRIALIZATION
--
Computers,
allows SS Module      (with Plastics & Robotics)
       SS Structural  (with Rocketry & Space Flight)
       
Tech required: MATHEMATICS and ELECTRONICS
--
Conscription,
allows Riflemen


Tech required: THE REPUBLIC and EXPLOSIVES
--
Construction,
allows Aqueduct
       Colosseum
       Coastal Defence
       
Tech required: MASONRY and CURRENCY
--
Currency,
allows Aqueduct  (with Masonry & Construction)
       Colosseum (with Masonry & Construction)
       Caravan   (with Code of Laws & Trade)

Tech required: BRONZE WORKING
--
Democracy

Tech required: PHILOSOPHY and LITERACY
--
Electricity,
allows Bomber  (with Flight & Advanced Flight)
       Carrier (with Flight & Advanced Flight)

Tech required: METALLURGY and MAGNETISM
--
Electronics,
allows Nuclear plant  (with Nuclear fission & Nuclear power)
       Nuclear unit   (with Advanced Flight & Rocketry)
       
Tech required: ENGINEERING and ELECTRICITY
--
Engineering

Tech required: THE WHEEL and CONSTRUCTION
--
Explosives,
allows Cruiser  (with Refining & Combustion)
       Riflemen (with The Republic & Conscription)
       
Tech required: GUNPOWDER and CHEMISTRY
--
Feudalism,
allows Knights  (with Horseback riding & Chivalry)
       
Tech required: MASONRY and MONARCHY
--
Flight,
allows Fighter
       

Tech required: COMBUSTION and PHYSICS
--
Fusion Power

Tech required: NUCLEAR POWER and SUPERCONDUCTOR 
--
Genetic Engineering

Tech required: MEDICINE and THE CORPORATION
--
Gunpowder,
allows Musketeers
       Cannon       (with University & Metallurgy)
       
Tech required: INVENTION and IRON WORKING
--
Horseback Riding,
allows Cavalry
       Knight  (with Feudalism & Chivalry)

Tech required: NONE
--
Industrialization,
allows Women's Suffrage
       Transportation
       Battleship       (with Metallurgy & Steel)
       United Nations   (with Philosophy & Communism)
       
Tech required: RAILROAD and BANKING 
--
Invention,
allows Musketeers  (with Iron working & Gunpowder)
       Ironclad    (with Physics & Steam Engine)

Tech required: ENGINEERING and LITERACY
--
Iron Working,
allows Legion
       Musketeers  (with Invention & Gunpowder)
            
Tech required: BRONZE WORKING
--
Labour Union,
allows Mechanized infantry

Tech required: MASS PRODUCTION and COMMUNISM
--
Literacy

Tech required: WRITING and CODE OF LAWS
--
Magnetism,
allows Frigate

Tech required: NAVIGATION and PHYSICS
--
MapMaking,
allows Trireme
       Sail     (with Astronomy & Navigation)
       
Tech required: ALPHABET
--
Masonry,
allows City Walls
       Catapult   (with Alphabet & Mathematics)
       Aqueduct   (with Currency & Construction)
       Colosseum  (with Currency & Construction)
       
Tech required: NONE
--
Mass Production,
allows Submarine
       Mechanized infantry  (with Communism & Labour Union)

Tech required: AUTOMOBILE and THE CORPORATION
--
Mathematics,
allows Catapult
       University  (with Philosophy & University)
       Copernicus  (with Mysticism & Astronomy)
       Observatory  (with Mysticism & Astronomy)
       
Tech required: ALPHABET and MASONRY
--
Medicine,


Tech required: PHILOSOPHY and TRADE
--
Metallurgy,
allows Cannon
       battleship  (with Industrialization & Steel)

Tech required: GUNPOWDER and UNIVERSITY
--
Monarchy

Tech required: CEREMONIAL BURIAL and CODE OF LAWS
--
Mysticism,
allows Copernicus  (with Mathematics & Astronomy)
       Observatory  (with Mathematics & Astronomy)

Tech required: CEREMONIAL BURIAL
--
Navigation,
allows Sail
       Frigate  (with Physics & Magnetism)
       
Tech required: MAPMAKING and ASTRONOMY
--
Nuclear Fission,
allows Nuclear plant (with Electronics & Nuclear power)

Tech required: MASS PRODUCTION and ATOMIC THEORY
--
Nuclear Power,
allows Nuclear plant

Tech required: NUCLEAR FISSION and ELECTRONICS
--
Philosophy,
allows Cathedral      (with Writing & religion)
       University     (with Mathematics & University)
       United Nations (with Industrialization & Communism)

NOTE: First player to discover philosophy gets two extra tech's
      for his/her effort. 

Tech required: MYSTICISM and LITERACY
--
Physics,
allows Fighter  (with Combustion & Flight)
       Frigate  (with Navigation &Magnetism)
       Ironclad (with Invention & Steam Engine)
       
Tech required: MATHEMATICS and NAVIGATION
--
Plastics,
allows SS Component
       SS Module     (with Computers & Robotics)
       Artillery     (with Computers & Robotics)
       
Tech required: REFINING and SPACEFLIGHT
--
Pottery
allows Granary

Tech required: NONE
--
Railroad,
allows Railroads

Tech required: STEAM ENGINE and BRIDGE BUILDING
--
Recycling

Tech required: MASS PRODUCTION and DEMOCRACY
--
Refining,
allows Power plant
       SS Component (with Space Flight & Plastics)
       Cruiser      (with Explosives & Combustion)
       

Tech required: CHEMISTRY and THE CORPORATION
--
Religion,
allows Cathedral


Tech required: PHILOSOPHY and WRITING
--
Robotics,
allows SS Module

Tech required: PLASTICS and COMPUTERS
--
Rocketry,
allows Nuclear unit
       SS Structural (with Computers & Space Flight)

Tech required: ADVANCED FLIGHT and ELECTRONICS
--
Space Flight,
allows SS Structural
       SS Component  (with Refining & Plastics)

Tech required: COMPUTERS and ROCKETRY
--
Steam Engine,
allows Ironclad
       Railroads  (with Bridge Building & Railroad)

Tech required: PHYSICS and INVENTION
--
Steel,
allows Battleship
       Armor       (with Combustion & Automobile)
       

Tech required: METALLURGY and INDUSTRIALIZATION
--
Superconductor

Tech required: PLASTICS and MASS PRODUCTION
--
The Corporation,
allows Submarine   (with Automobile & Mass Production)
       Power plant (with Chemistry & Refining)
       
Tech required: BANKING and INDUSTRIALIZATION
--
The Republic,
allows Bank      (with Trade & Banking)
       Riflemen  (with Explosives & Conscription)

Tech required: CODE OF LAWS and LITERACY
--
The Wheel,
allows Chariot unit

Tech required: NONE
--
Theory Of Gravity

Tech required: ASTRONOMY and UNIVERSITY
--
Trade,
allows Caravan unit
       Bank          (with The Republic & Banking)
       

Tech required: CURRENCY
--
University,
allows University
       Cannon      (with Gunpowder & metallurgy)

Tech required: MATHEMATICS and PHILOSOPHY
--
Writing,
allows Diplomat unit
       Cathedral      (with Philosophy & Religion)

Tech required: ALPHABET
--
Each Wonder has specific benefits for your civilization. Each Wonder
is unique and is placed in the city which constructed it.
--
Apollo Program,
maps all cities.

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:SPACEFLIGHT

Tech required for SPACEFLIGHT: Computers and Rocketry

Apollo Program never becomes obsolete!
--
Cure For Cancer,
makes one unhappy citizen, content in all cities

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:GENETIC ENGINEERING

Tech required for GENETIC ENGINEERING: Medicine and The Corporation

Cure For Cancer never becomes obsolete!
--
Colossus,
gives an additional trade bonus on each trade field in the city. 

Cost:200  Upkeep:4  Requires:BRONZE WORKING

No tech is required for BRONZE WORKING!

Colossus becomes obsolete by ELECTRICITY
--
Copernicus' Observatory,
double science output in all cities

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:ASTRONOMY

Tech required for ASTRONOMY: Mysticism and Mathematics

Copernicus' Observatory becomes obsolete by AUTOMOBILE
--
Darwins Voyage,
creates a two tech advances

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:RAILROADS

Tech required for RAILROADS: Steam Engine and Bridge Building

Darwins Voyage never becomes obsolete!
--
Great Library,
will give the player, every tech-advance that at least two
other players have archived.

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:LITERACY

Tech required for LITERACY: Writing and Code of Law

Great Library becomes obsolete by UNIVERSITY
--
Great Wall,
works as a city wall in all cities.

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:MASONRY

Tech required for MASONRY: NONE

Great Wall becomes obsolete by GUNPOWDER
--
Hanging Gardens,
makes one unhappy or content citizen happy

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:POTTERY

Tech required for POTTERY: NONE

Hanging Gardens becomes obsolete by INVENTION
--
Hoover Dam,
boost production by 50% and halfs pollution in all cities 
within 25 tiles.

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:ELECTRONICS

Tech required for ELECTRONICS: Engineering and Electricity

Hoover Dam never becomes obsolete!
--
Isaac Newton's College,
boosts science output by 50% in all cities

Cost:400  Upkeep:0  Requires:THEORY OF GRAVITY

Tech required for THEORY OF GRAVITY: Astronomy and University

Isaac Newton's College becomes obsolete by FISSION
--
J.S.Bach's Cathedral,
makes two  unhappy citizens content in all cities within 25 tiles.

Cost:400  Upkeep:0  Requires:RELIGION

Tech required for RELIGION: Philosophy and Writing

J.S.Bach's Cathedral never becomes obsolete!
--
Lighthouse,
give all sea units 1 additional move point.

Cost:200  Upkeep:0  Requires:MAP MAKING

Tech required for MAP MAKING: Alphabet

Lighthouse becomes obsolete by MAGNETISM
--
Magellan's Expedition,
give all sea units 1 additional moves

Cost:400  Upkeep:0  Requires:NAVIGATION

Tech required for NAVIGATION: Mapmaking and Astronomy

Magellan's Expedition never becomes obsolete!
--
Manhattan Project,
allow the creation of nuclear missiles for all players with
sufficient knowledge

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:NUCLEAR FISSION

Tech required for NUCLEAR FISSION: Mass Production and Atomic Theory

Manhattan Project never becomes obsolete!
--
Michelangelo's Chapel,
increases the power of cathedrals by 50% in all cities.

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:RELIGION

Tech required for RELIGION: Philosophy and Writing

Michelangelo's Chapel becomes obsolete by COMMUNISM
--
Oracle,
doubles the effect of temples.

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:MYSTICISM

Tech required for MYSTICISM: Ceremonial Burial

Oracle becomes obsolete by RELIGION
--
Pyramids,
makes all government types avail.

Cost:300  Upkeep:0  Requires:MASONRY

Tech required for MASONRY: NONE

Pyramids becomes obsolete by COMMUNISM
--
SETI Program,
gives 50% extra science in each city.

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:COMPUTERS

Tech required for COMPUTERS: Mathematics and Electronics

SETI Program never becomes obsolete!
--
Shakespeare's Theatre,
makes all unhappy citizens content, in the city where it is
located.

Cost:400  Upkeep:0  Requires:MEDICINE

Tech required for MEDICINE: Philosophy and Trade

Shakespeare's Theatre becomes obsolete by ELECTRONICS
--
United Nations,
units regains one extra HP per turn.

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:COMMUNISM

Tech required for COMMUNISM: Philosophy and Industrialization

United Nations never becomes obsolete!
--
Women's Suffrage,
reduces unhappiness for military units outside city by 2 under
democracy. Reduced by 1 under all other form governments.

Cost:600  Upkeep:0  Requires:INDUSTRIALIZATION

Tech required for INDUSTRIALIZATION: Railroad and Banking

Women's Suffrage never becomes obsolete!
--
The Newbie hint section can be used by new players in order 
to help them understand how to deal with certain city
improvements.
--
Encourage city growth

You can encourage city growth by building:

            1 Granary
            2 Aqueduct
--
Improve the economy

You can improve the economy by building:

            1 MarketPlace
            2 Bank
--
Increase happiness

You can increase happiness by building:

            1 Temple
	    2 Cathedral
	    3 Colosseum
--
Increase knowledge

You can increase knowledge by building:

            1 Library
	    2 University
--
Increase productivity 

You can increase productivity by building:

            1 Factory
	    2 Mfg. Plant
	    3 Power Plant
	    4 Hydro Plant
	    5 Nuclear Plant
--
